162 Vent

For those of you taking 162 right now, you will probably understand the frustration. This 10 point preditor pray simulation lab she is making us do is ridiculous. Numerous people have said it is taking them more than 12 hours to complete a lab that is only worth 10 FREAKING POINTS while none of the 100 point assignments or other 10 point labs have taken them this long.

Based on our feedback she them extends the due date of the lab to Tuesday instead of Sunday, but says "If you can get it turned in Sunday then do because lab 6 will also take effort to finish and you will want to start early". Hello Lady, the due date wasn't even the biggest point. The biggest point is you are making us do ridiculous amounts of work for 10 lousy points!! Now this is coming from someone who gets started on stuff and gets it done right away. I work full time and am taking 225 as well, but typically I can get 225 work, the test and the lab done by Wednesday so I have the rest of the week to work on the assignment. I am still not done with the lab, and I feel like I could finish assignment 3 in a fraction of the time that lab 5 has taken me already. That includes the design document, code, AND reflection!! Our of all the TAs and the teacher there are maybe 3 TAs that answer everything and we never see a peep from the teacher. The program may be making changes, but I wouldn't say they are good.

[deleted]

162 is a tough class, but, my sympathy is essentially non-existent after taking it with Rooker this past summer.

Just stay on top of things and you'll be fine.

I've heard the Rooker horror stories. One of the TA'S from 162 this quarter told us this professor has never taught before and just decided to adopt Rooker's way. Then we only hear from her when she is telling us something is about to be due. I think in the 5 weeks she has replied to a comment thread once.

I have zero sympathy for anyone who is taking this course when it isn't taught by Rooker. I had it in the summer with another course while working full time, let's just say I didn't sleep for 8 weeks. The Doodlebugs wasn't all that big of a deal I didn't think. My final project was a damn nightmare. I ended up with like 45 files for my game. It was overkill, but I got an A so I guess it was worth it.

What kind of game?

Your choice. If it's the same final project. There are certain rules that will apply, but you essentially can do whatever the hell you want as long as you hit everything on the grading rubric.

Holy shit dude! What the heck did you make? Mine came out to 20 files total.

Let's just say once I got started I couldn't stop haha. It was an adventure game where you had to talk to different characters and collect certain items to move forward in the game. If you didn't talk to the other characters in the right order you couldn't gain access to what you needed either. I had a lot of dead ends, a basement, three levels up worth of hallways, each hallway had like 4 other rooms attached to it, rooftop access, you get the idea.

I also took it over the summer with rooker, but our final project was just a big battle royale of different characters/creatures. Really wasn't bad. I had fun with it. 19 files, but only because every class got it's own file.

Based on the discussions in 162 right now, this is probably an unpopular opinion... but I actually really like this assignment. It felt like a challenge, unlike most of the other assignments in the class so far. I actually had to think about it and exercise some skills I haven't really used yet. I feel like I've learned and grown by having done it, which is the point.

I am by no means saying that it isn't good for us to experience assignments like this. I am just saying they shouldn't be worth 10x less than assignments that are not nearly as hard.

At the end of the day who cares how many points it's worth? You're paying money to learn. They want you to do the assignment so that you learn. Do yourself a favor and forget about the points.

The reason I care is because she also assigned an actual 2 week assignment, a group assignment and a test this week. She indicated that next week the lab would be just as long. So when do we have time to get everything else done? You want to give us something that long, great! Give us the proper time to do it AND everything else we need to do.

Just be glad you don't have Rooker.

They did the same thing to us a few semesters back - they were told then that the lab was well beyond a normal lab in time commitment, longer than most of the assignments. If you still have the assignment then they don't appear to care. The instructor seemed to be under the impression that parts of the doodlebug or whatever assignment could be easily adapted - they couldn't - the requirements were too different. My TA didn't even know how to approach the problem. Clearly there is a problem with the lab - it should be an assignment.

I'm not sure this professor has ever taught 162 before. That said, in 161 I saw more direct answers and assistance out of the professor than I've seen from all of the 162 TAs combined. My 161 TA was excellent and provided good feedback on assignments as well. In 162 the professor so far has been nonexistent and the TAs often offer up answers that completely misunderstand the question or just give non-answers. I'm hoping this course is an outlier in the overall program but I'm not holding my breath.

Yea. 161 was so much better. I don't know if my TA would have offered good insight as I got all the assignments 100% in 161, but everything was clear and there were example. I had a TA th other day just quote the lab to me word for word when I asked for clarification. I was like wtf??

Don't do it then? It's only 2% of the final grade. I got it half working and am submitting that. It's not really worth the time.

Uffda! I'm not sure what the requirements of your predator prey program is but that was a one of the full assignments when I took the class. Sounds painful indeed. Roll with the punches I guess.

Ahhhh doodlebugs. Yeah that assignment was dumb. Triple pointers, yay! The term I took it (in the good old Rooker days) I got something somewhat functional, explained my problems in the comments, and my TA was very lenient. Your mileage may vary with different TAs but it's a tiny assignment. Don't stress over it. I know I did, and it was pointless. Come to a reasonable stopping point and just stop thinking about it. It's only 10 points...just not worth it imho, unless you have the time and inclination to spend on it.

Mine is done aside from commenting. Obviously I need to ho back and do that. But I spent like 3 days straight working on it. I think it works right. Kind of hard to tell considering the board looks like a war zone since she wanted empty spaces to be "E". I ran it once and there were no doodlebugs left so obviously they are starving, they appear to be breeding too. I'm not the kind of person to let something go , even when I should haha.

Nice! Good job. I spent a long time on it but started late assuming it would be on par with the other labs...yeah not so much. Ran out of time.

I think we could all come up with a bunch of "the time and effort don't match the points" examples (In fact, for me, CS225 is a great example - how many hours did it take to do the homework which is almost a throwaway of points) - but that work lays the foundation for the rest, so you kind of have to do it.

Hands down, 162 was my favorite class in the program thus far (and yes, not all labs and assignments were equal work for equal grades) - and I took it with Rooker.

Its kind of how real life works sometimes :)

Hands down, 162 was my favorite class in the program thus far

That's... disappointing to hear because 162 has been a total shitshow so far. By far the worst run college course I've ever taken. I was hoping the program would be improving after this.

There will be worse!

I actually liked 162, but I took it with Rooker over the summer. We didn't have a 'doodlebug' assignment.

I would have to agree with 225. I'm going with the not handwriting anything route to ensure I'll be good on the tests, and it's very time consuming, but I kind of expected it when she told us how long she would give us for the quizzes.